.TH cgb.h 3 "19 Aug 2000" "gbdk-lib" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
cgb.h \- Support for Color GameBoy. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS Defines

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "
#define \fBRGB\fR (r, g, b) "
.br
.RI "\fIMacro to create a palette entry out of the color components.\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "
#define \fBRGB_RED\fR"
.br
.RI "\fICommon colors based on the EGA default palette.\fR"
.PP

.in -1c
.SS Functions

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "
void \fBset_bkg_palette\fR (\fBUINT8\fR first_palette, \fBUINT8\fR nb_palettes, \fBUINT16\fR *rgb_data) NONBANKED"
.br
.RI "\fISet bkg palette(s).\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "
void \fBset_sprite_palette\fR (\fBUINT8\fR first_palette, \fBUINT8\fR nb_palettes, \fBUINT16\fR *rgb_data) NONBANKED"
.br
.RI "\fISet sprite palette(s).\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "
void \fBset_bkg_palette_entry\fR (\fBUINT8\fR palette, \fBUINT8\fR entry, \fBUINT16\fR rgb_data)"
.br
.RI "\fISet a bkg palette entry.\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "
void \fBset_sprite_palette_entry\fR (\fBUINT8\fR palette, \fBUINT8\fR entry, \fBUINT16\fR rgb_data)"
.br
.RI "\fISet a sprite palette entry.\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBcpu_slow\fR (void)"
.br
.RI "\fISet CPU speed to slow operation.\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBcpu_fast\fR (void)"
.br
.RI "\fISet CPU speed to fast operation.\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "
void \fBcgb_compatibility\fR (void)"
.br
.RI "\fISet defaults compatible with normal GameBoy.\fR"
.PP

.in -1c
.SH DETAILED DESCRIPTION
.PP 
Support for Color GameBoy.
.SH FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.PP 
.SS void cpu_slow (void)
.PP
Set CPU speed to slow operation.
.PP
Make sure interrupts are disabled before call.
.PP
\fBSee also: \fR
.in +1c
\fBcpu_fast\fR() 
.SS void cpu_fast (void)
.PP
Set CPU speed to fast operation.
.PP
Make sure interrupts are disabled before call.
.PP
\fBSee also: \fR
.in +1c
\fBcpu_slow\fR() 
.SH AUTHOR
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for gbdk-lib from the source code.