.TH stdio.h 3 "19 Aug 2000" "gbdk-lib" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
stdio.h \- Basic file/console input output functions. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS Functions

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "
void \fBputchar\fR (char c)"
.br
.RI "\fIPut the character 'c' to stdout.\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprintf\fR (const char *format, ...) NONBANKED"
.br
.RI "\fIPrint the string and arguments given by format to stdout.\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsprintf\fR (char *str, const char *format, ...) NONBANKED"
.br
.RI "\fIPrint the string and arguments given by format to a buffer.\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "
void \fBputs\fR (const char *s) NONBANKED"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBputs\fR() writes the string s and a trailing newline to std­ out.\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "char* \fBgets\fR (char *s)"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBgets\fR() reads a line from stdin into the buffer pointed to by s until either a terminating newline or EOF, which it replaces with '\\0'.\fR"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "
char \fBgetchar\fR (void)"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBgetchar\fR() gets a single character from stdin.\fR"
.PP

.in -1c
.SH DETAILED DESCRIPTION
.PP 
Basic file/console input output functions.
.SH FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.PP 
.SS void printf (const char * format, ...)
.PP
Print the string and arguments given by format to stdout.
.PP
Currently supported: %c (character), %u (unsigned int), %d (signed int), %x (unsigned int as hex), and %s (string). Does not return the number of characters printed. 
.SS void sprintf (char * str, const char * format, ...)
.PP
Print the string and arguments given by format to a buffer.
.PP
Currently supported: %c (character), %u (unsigned int), %d (signed int), %x (unsigned int as hex), and %s (string). Does not return the number of characters printed.
.PP
\fBParameters: \fR
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIstr\fR\fR The buffer to print into. 
.TP
\fB\fIformat\fR\fR The format string as per printf. 
.SS char * gets (char * s)
.PP
\fBgets\fR() reads a line from stdin into the buffer pointed to by s until either a terminating newline or EOF, which it replaces with '\\0'.
.PP
No check for buffer overrun is per­ formed. 
.SH AUTHOR
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for gbdk-lib from the source code.